h1. memoize.lua

This is a pura-Lua memoization function that builds upon what was shown in "Programming In Lua's memoization implementation":http://www.lua.org/pil/17.1.html function.

Main characteristics:

* Caches the results based on multiple parameters instead of just 1.
* Doesn't rely on tostring; instead, it uses operator == on all the parameters (this is accomplished by structuring the cache in a tree-like structure, where each tree node corresponds to one parameter).
* Works correctly with functions returning multiple values, i.e. x,y = getPosition()

Partially inspired by "this StackOverflow question":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/129877/how-do-i-write-a-generic-memoize-function

h1. Examples of use

@memoize.lua@ can be used to avoid stack overflow & slow performance on recursive functions, in exchange for memory. In some cases it might be necessary to `seed the function` before using it.

<pre>
function triangle(x)
  if x == 0 then return 0 end
  return x+triangle(x-1)
end

print(triangle(40000)) -- stack overflow: too much recursion

local memoize = require 'memoize'

triangle = memoize(triangle) -- make triangle memoized, so it "remembers" previous results

for i=0, 40000 do triangle(i) end -- seed triangle's cache

print(triangle(40000)) -- 800020000, instantaneous result
</pre>


Another use for @memoize.lua@ is on resource-loading functions. Let's say you have an image-loading function called @load_image@. You'd like to use the image loaded by that function on two different places in your code, but you are unsure of which of those places will call @load_image@ first; and you don't want to load two images.

<pre>
function load_image(path)
  ...
  return image
end

function f()
  local image = load_image(path)
  ...
end

function g()
  local image = load_image(path)
  ...
end
</pre>

You can just memoize load_image; the image will be loaded the first time load_image is called, and will be recovered from the cache on subsequent calls.

<pre>
local memoize = require 'memoize'

function load_image(path)
  ...
  return image
end

load_image = memoize(load_image)

function f()
  local image = load_image(path)
  ...
end

function g()
  local image = load_image(path)
  ...
end
</pre>



h1. Gotchas / Warnings

* *nil return values are considered cache-misses and thus are never cached*; If you need to cache a function that doesn't return anything, make it return a dummy not-nil value (false, '', 0 or any other non-nil value will work just fine).
* If you need to liberate the memory used by a memoized function, memoize it again:

<pre>
mf = memoize(f);
mf(1)
mf(2)
mf(3)
memoize(f) -- this cleans up the cache
</pre>

* This function *does not use weak tables* for caching; the memory devoted to memoizing is thus not-recuperable until the program halts/stops. If you are going to use this function extensively, you might want to modify insertInCache so that it uses weak tables.
* There's a (small) linear performance & memory penalty for every additional parameter used. *Try to keep the parameter numbers low*.

h1. Installation

Just copy the memoize.lua file somewhere in your projects (maybe inside a /lib/ folder) and require it accordingly.

Remember to store the value returned by require somewhere! (I suggest a local variable named memoize)

<pre>
local memoize = require 'memoize'
</pre>

Also, make sure to read the license file; the text of that license file must appear somewhere in your projects' files.

h1. Specs

This project uses "telescope":https://github.com/norman/telescope for its specs. If you want to run the specs, you will have to install telescope first. Then just enter the spec folder and execute tsc:

<pre>
tsc spec/*
</pre>


